So why don't we start with
a simple exercise here.
We're going to take this idea
that we've already started with.
We have a sphere.
We're gonna add some texture to it.
We're gonna make maybe
an orbiting moon around an earth.
And we're gonna learn a little bit
about how to set up our scenes,
how to set up our camera and
controls and things like that.
And then also how to do
some basic texturing.
And you'll see this is gonna be very
similar to the first three demos.
So the concepts I'm about to show
are very similar to this mesh demo,
very similar to the meshes which
just shows multiple meshes.
And then very similar to groups,
which we're going to be doing.
But we're gonna do it in a more fun
exercise using Canvas sketch locally and
bringing some images and
things like that rather than
just blank doing plain circles.
So to start of,
let's just pop on our sketch,
we can set the settings
to some default value,
just clear the settings back
to how it was when we started.
So just make it so that anime is true and
context is set to WebGL which
is gonna allow us to use WebGL.
And then let's just walk
through this a little bit.
So we have a render,
which is gonna allow us to render things.
This is the sort of bulk
of the three.JS engine.
We have to make sure we pass
the same Canvas we're working with
from Canvas sketching, and
then we can change the background color.
Let's use black.
And this next bit here has
to do with the camera.
And so camera, we define this with
a field of view, which is in degrees.
And so this first parameter, usually you
would use some value maybe between 30, or
70, or 75, or 80, or something like that.
The higher the value the more
it's going to get stretched out.
But the more you'll start to notice some
distortion sometimes around the edges.
So I like to stick around 50,
or 45, or around there.
And then this next value here is aspect
ratio, which we can leave it as one for
now because we're going to update
it when the scene resizes.
And then we have the near and far values
and this is gonna clip the object
based on how close it is the camera or
how far away it is to the camera.
So if you remember in,
if you've ever played a 3D game,
you might see these distant mountains and
the mountains might sort of disappear
after a while or
as you go far enough away from a tree or
something like that all of
a sudden the tree disappears.
That's getting clipped by the far plane.
And so if I was to use a low number here,
we might not see our sphere.
So we have to make sure that
these numbers are high enough so
that they don't clip our scene.
So you just use 500 or 100 or
something like that for now.
And then this is the same concept,
the near is the same concept, but
it has to do with how close we are.
So eventually you'll see
when I'm zooming in here,
these front lines disappear and
that has to do with the near clipping.
So the larger this number
the more likely we're gonna
clip earlier on as we start to zoom in.
So just so you keep in mind but
we can leave it at the default for now.
And then the position,
we set the position of the camera.
So right now we're setting it to
be negative four in the z-axis so
that we can just look
directly at the sphere.
If we don't have this, it starts at 000,
which is actually pretty useful sometimes,
but right now, that's not what we want.
So we move that back so
we can see the sphere and
then we look the camera at the center.
This line here just says look
at the origin of the world,
and you can try tweaking this to sort
of raise the camera a little bit and
maybe offset it on the x-axis as well.
This next bit here has
to do with controls.
So this is where we add
in the interactivity, so
the ability to click and drag.
If you want, you can take all these
control references, comment them out, and
no loner will you see the interactive.
But that might be useful if you’re
creating just an animation that
runs on its own.
You don’t want it to be interactive so
you might want to take out these controls.
Or you might want to
use different controls.
Like first person controls or
track ball controls.
Or some sort of other controls.
These controls are part of
an extension of three.js.
They are required right
up here in the top.
And this is how we can require different
things from the three.js examples.
So if I keep scrolling down we've
got our scene, just a plain object.
We have some geometry which is the sphere.
And then we have a material which
is just a wireframe red material,
we can turn off wireframe to
make it a bit more obvious.
Or we could set this to another
material like mesh normal material.
And with mesh normal material you
don't need to specify a color.
But you could specify flat shading true
and then you have this, let's scene now.
And then finally we just
add the mesh to the scene.
We create the mesh and add to the scene.
And this last bit here we don't need
to worry so much about this right now.
This is just a resizing the camera,
resizing the render, and
then actually updating the controls and
dispatching this render call,
which is gonna actually create.
It's going to take our scene, It's going
to take our camera, combine those two
things to actually create this image
that we're seeing in our browser.